Welcome to Vector Arithmetic!
In this video we have got some very exciting maths coming up for you! We're going to
understand what a vector is, or revise it for some of us, and we're
going to add and subtract vectors and figure out what that means. What does
adding one vector to another actually do? Then, we're going to use these
vectors to do something useful, to calculate the distance from home.
OK, let's get stuck in!
So, at the moment, our game is still a little bit boring, because
home is only ever left and right, it's never down or
up. So the way we are going to fix this is by
introducing a new concept, a concept called vectors!
Now, you may or may not remember vectors from highschool
maths but the idea is that a vector is basically
just a line with some direction, that's why it has an arrow, and a
length. It doesn't matter where the line starts, we can put it
anywhere in a system, in a grid system, it just has
a length and a direction. And because of that, we can represent
it, at least a 2 dimensional vector, we can represent with 2 numbers, hence
why 2 dimensions. So a two dimensional
vector is two numbers, but what do these numbers mean? Well the first number is
the amount that vector goes along in X, so
3 in this case, 3 units whatever the units are. And
in Unity we often use meters to be the unit. So we could say
3 meters, and then, it means it goes up 2
and up is Y. So it goes along 3 and up 2, so
our vector is (3, 2). OK so what about
adding vectors? What is adding a + b? So a
is this vector and b is this vector. Well actually, adding them
is just following the path, so if we follow the path along a and
then along b, we get the vector a + b, which is this white
vector, like so. Then we have vector
subtraction, vector a - b. What does that mean?
Well we have vector a, we follow that, that's going along
in the positive direction and then we subtract b. We go along
in the negative direction, we follow the arrow backwards like
this, and then, we get our
vector in white, a - b.
So now that you're thoroughly bored to death with all of this maths, let's
have a look at why it's applicable. We want to calculate the distance from home,
if we have a player. So say our player is at this location. So
interpreting a vector's location is quite easy. We assume that this is the
0 point, the origin, the whatever you want to call it, this
starting point for our reference system
It's often 0, 0, and then, we have a
Player which is at this location, at the end of the arrow, so the
vector can give us a location in this way. So we have a Player who is
lost somewhere here, at the end of the arrow, and then, we have another location,
which is the location of Home, and that is at the end of this arrow.
And we want to calculate the distance from the Player to Home.
OK, but I'm not going to do that, I'm going to see what
you've just learned. What should the distance be? I'd like you to
use your knowledge of vector maths, the newly acquired knowledge
for some of you. The hint is that you only
need addition and subtraction, there's nothing, no other cleaver operations either.
[Laughs] I've taught you everything you need to know about vectors.
And then, share your thoughts in the discussions. I'd really like to see what some
of you have just come up with by yourselves. OK, so pause the video and have a go
and have a little head scratch. OK welcome
back! I hope you've all been scratching your heads thoroughly! Let's have a look at what
is the actual correct answer. OK so the distance from home, you can
think about it as we want to go from here to here, so
that's like traveling along this arrow backwards and along this one
forwards. So as I just clicked a little bit prematurely, that is this
Distance here. So what we can say is that the Distance
is equal to Home - Player, or - Player
+ Home, exactly the same thing algebraically. So
that is the answer!
Distance is = to Home - Player!
Congratulations! Let's move on to the next lecture,
where we'll actually be coding this into our game!